Week 02: Introduction to Numerical Linear Algebra
=================================================

Project 2 will introduce some concepts in numerical linear algebra, lead into
our topic next week on machine learning, and reenforce concepts and practices
we saw last week in Python, GitHub and Latex.

Specifically, our project will consist of following a tutorial in Python to
write our own Principal Component Analysis (PCA) tool. PCA is a very popular
dimension reduction method that is closely related to both the singular value
decomposition (SVD) and eigenvalue decomposition of a matrix (two topics that
will be covered in an actual numerical linear algebra course). It is widely
used in science and engineering, and gaining a deeper understanding of its
strengths and limitations will serve you well in the years ahead.

The project consists of three parts:

1. Follow the step by step tutorial
[here](https://plot.ly/ipython-notebooks/principal-component-analysis/). If
there are any steps you do not understand, please use this tutorial as a
springboard into looking up other online tutorials and/or documentations.

2. Pick another multivariate data set from the list of datasets
[here](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets.html) on which to perform PCA
analysis (we recommend choosing one with 50 < k < 500 instances with at least 3
attributes). How many principal components did you pick for your new data set
analysis? Why?

3. Write up in Latex a paragraph on which data set you choose, how many
principal components you selected and why, and whether performing PCA on your
data set yielded any insights or avenues for further analysis.

Please complete this assignment by the beginning of lecture on Tuesday, August
1 at 2pm. Assignment is considered complete if a short write-up in Latex is
uploaded and submitted to [T-square](t-square.gatech.edu) under Assignment 2;
the submission should also contain a link to your code in GitHub. 


