Week 04: Databases
==================

This week, we will explore databases in Python using the Pandas software
package.  To install Pandas using `conda`, simply execute the following from
the command line:

```
~$ conda install pandas
```

Then, `conda` will determine your version of Python, and install the
appropriate version of Pandas (probably 0.20.1) and you'll be ready to go! Of
course, if you installed Python through a download of the full Anaconda suite,
you should already have Pandas installed.  To get started using Pandas, simply
import it like this:

```
>>> import pandas as pd
```

Here, `pd` is a convenient abbreviation for `pandas`, so any time you want to
access some Pandas functionality, all you need to type is `pd.function_name()`
instead of `pandas.function_name()`.  

For our project this week, we will use Pandas to process ecological data
according to the [Data Carpentry](http://www.datacarpentry.org) lesson,
["Python for Ecologists"](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/).
During our interactive session this week, I will be introducing both the Pandas
software and Jupyter notebooks, which are a mutli-language IDE, and will
attempt to cover material from the first three sections from this lesson:

1. [Starting with
Data](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/01-starting-with-data/)

2. [Indexing, Slicing, and Subsetting DataFrames in
Python](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/02-index-slice-subset/)

3. [Data Types and
Formats](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/03-data-types-and-format/)

Your project will be to complete the remaining three sections from this lesson,
as well as completing **one** challenge problem per section: 

4. [Combining DataFrames with
Pandas](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/04-merging-data/) 

5.  [Data Workflows and
Automation](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/05-loops-and-functions/)

6. [Data Ingest & Visualization - Matplotlib &
Pandas](http://www.datacarpentry.org/python-ecology-lesson/07-putting-it-all-together/)

Finally, commit your code for each of the lessons to your fork of the
GT-IDEaS/SkillsWorkshop2017 repository, and create a pull request upstream.
Each of these lessons should be completed inside a Jupyter notebook, with file
name `firstinitiallastname_0x.ipynb`, where x is between 1 and 6 and
corresponds to the lesson number above, e.g., `dsirianni_04.ipynb`.  


